[DOCU-2308] DecK Konnect guide (#4030)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: src/deck/guides/konnect.md

---
title: Using decK with Kong Konnect
content_type: reference
---

You can manage {{site.base_gateway}} core entity configuration in your {{site.konnect_short_name}} organization using decK.

Similar to Gateway workspaces, decK can only target one runtime group at a time.
Managing multiple runtime groups requires a separate state file per group.

You _cannot_ use decK to publish content to the Dev Portal, manage application registration, or configure custom plugins.

## {{site.konnect_short_name}} flags

You can use any regular `deck` commands (such as `ping`, `diff`, or `sync`) with `--konnect` flags to target {{site.konnect_short_name}} instead of a self-managed {{site.base_gateway}} control plane.

You can also [save {{site.konnect_short_name}} credentials to a decK config file](#authenticate-with-a-deck-config-file) to target {{site.konnect_short_name}} by default.

If you don't pass any {{site.konnect_short_name}} parameters to decK, decK looks for a local {{site.base_gateway}} instance instead.

{:.note}
> Prior to decK 1.12, decK provided `deck konnect` commands.
These commands are deprecated and have been replaced with flags.

`--konnect-addr`

> :  Address of the {{site.konnect_short_name}} endpoint. (Default: `"https://us.api.konghq.com"`)

Author: ^ That's what I'm going with for now. Keeping the doc as-is till we fix it in the source.

`--konnect-email`
:  Email address associated with your {{site.konnect_short_name}} account.

`--konnect-password`
:  Password associated with your {{site.konnect_short_name}} account.
This takes precedence over the `--konnect-password-file` flag.

`--konnect-password-file`
:  File containing the password to your {{site.konnect_short_name}} account.

`--konnect-runtime-group-name`
:  {{site.konnect_short_name}} runtime group name.

## Authenticate with {{site.konnect_short_name}}

decK looks for {{site.konnect_short_name}} credentials in the following order of precedence:

1. Password set with the `--konnect-password` flag

> 2. decK configuration file (default: `~/.deck.yaml`)

Author: The latter -  decK looks for a .deck.yaml file in the home directory, it doesn't create one. Do you think it would be useful to add that clarification?

3. File passed with the `--konnect-password-file` flag

For example, if you have both a decK config file and a {{site.konnect_short_name}} password file, decK uses the password in the config file.

### Authenticate using a plaintext password

You can use the `--konnect-password` flag to provide the password directly in the command:

```sh
deck ping \
  --konnect-email example@example.com \
  --konnect-password YOUR_PASSWORD
```

### Authenticate using a password file

For a more secure approach, you can save your {{site.konnect_short_name}}
password to a file, then pass the filename to decK with `--konnect-password-file`:

```sh
deck ping \
  --konnect-email example@example.com \

>   --konnect-password-file /PATH/TO/FILE

Author: It doesn't! I tested with a couple of different things (no extension, .txt, .yaml, .md) and they all worked.

The default API decK uses is `https://us.api.konghq.com`, which targets the `cloud.konghq.com` environment.
If your account is in this environment, you don't need to change anything.

If your account is in the `konnect.konghq.com` environment, use this flag to target the relevant API:

```sh
deck ping --konnect-addr https://konnect.konghq.com
```

## Runtime groups

Each [state file](/deck/{{page.kong_version}}/terminology/#state-files) targets one runtime group.
If you don't provide a group, decK targets the `default` runtime group.

If you have a custom runtime group, you can specify the group in the state file,
or use a flag when running any decK command.

* Target a runtime group in your state file with the `konnect_runtime_group` parameter:

    ```yaml
    _format_version: "1.1"
    _konnect:
      runtime_group_name: staging
    ```

* Set a group using the `--konnect-runtime-group-name` flag:

    ```sh
    deck sync --konnect-runtime-group-name staging
    ```

## {{site.konnect_short_name}} service tags

In {{site.konnect_short_name}}, there are two types of services:
* Gateway services: Managed through Runtime Manager

> * {{site.konnect_short_name}} services: Managed through Service Hub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* {{site.konnect_short_name}} services: Managed through Service Hub
Each Konnect Service may contain one or more service versions. A service version represents an implementation of a Gateway service.
```

decK manages Gateway services, which contain configurations for the Gateway proxy.

> Although decK doesn't _directly_ manage {{site.konnect_short_name}} services, you can use tags to associate a Gateway service to a {{site.konnect_short_name}} service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although decK doesn't _directly_ manage {{site.konnect_short_name}} services or service versions, you can use tags to associate a Gateway service to a service version in a {{site.konnect_short_name}} service:
```

```yaml
tags:

> - _KonnectService:example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- _KonnectService:<Konnect-Service-Name>
```

```

> If the {{site.konnect_short_name}} service doesn't exist, setting this tag creates a {{site.konnect_short_name}} service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<Konnect-Service-Name>` identifies which {{site.konnect_short_name}} to associate the Gateway service to. If the {{site.konnect_short_name}} service doesn't exist, setting this tag creates a {{site.konnect_short_name}} service.
```

{:.note}
> Prior to decK 1.12, decK provided `deck konnect` commands.
These commands are deprecated and have been replaced with flags.

`--konnect-addr`
:  Address of the {{site.konnect_short_name}} endpoint. (Default: `"https://us.api.konghq.com"`)

`--konnect-email`
:  Email address associated with your {{site.konnect_short_name}} account.

`--konnect-password`
:  Password associated with your {{site.konnect_short_name}} account.
This takes precedence over the `--konnect-password-file` flag.

`--konnect-password-file`
:  File containing the password to your {{site.konnect_short_name}} account.

`--konnect-runtime-group-name`
:  {{site.konnect_short_name}} runtime group name.

## Authenticate with {{site.konnect_short_name}}

decK looks for {{site.konnect_short_name}} credentials in the following order of precedence:

1. Password set with the `--konnect-password` flag
2. decK configuration file (default: `~/.deck.yaml`)
3. File passed with the `--konnect-password-file` flag

For example, if you have both a decK config file and a {{site.konnect_short_name}} password file, decK uses the password in the config file.

### Authenticate with CLI flags

> There are two ways to authenticate through CLI flags: by passing the password in `--konnect-password` directly, or by saving it to a file and passing the filename to decK with `--konnect-password-file`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two ways to authenticate through CLI flags. You can pass the password in `--konnect-password` directly or save it to a file and pass the filename to decK with `--konnect-password-file`.
```
Just reworked this a bit to see if I could remove the comma between the dependent clauses (I think that's right, but not 100% sure).

> With `konnect-password`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to use `konnect-password` to authenticate:
```

Author: This is a bit wordy, but I can see where you're going with it. I'll try to reword to add a bit more context to this and the next example.

```sh
deck ping \

>   --konnect-email YOUR_EMAIL \

Reviewer 2: Should this be "email@example.com" based on our discussion about placeholder examples?

  --konnect-password YOUR_PASSWORD
```

> Or, save your {{site.konnect_short_name}} password to a file, then pass the file using the `--konnect-password-file` flag:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to save your {{site.konnect_short_name}} password to a file, then pass the file using the `--konnect-password-file` flag:
```

```sh
deck ping \

>   --konnect-email YOUR_EMAIL \

Reviewer 2: Same comment here about if this should be "email@example.com" or something like that.

  --konnect-password-file /PATH/TO/FILE
```

### Authenticate with a decK config file

The default decK configuration file is `~/.deck.yaml`.
You can store {{site.konnect_short_name}} credentials in this file to pass them more securely.
For example:

```
konnect-email: example@email.com
konnect-password: YOUR_PASSWORD
```

> Alternatively, you can save your password in a separate file, then specify the password file instead of a password:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can save your password in a separate file, then specify the password file instead of a password. 
For example:
```
Just to mirror the one above.

```
konnect-email: example@example.com
konnect-password-file: PATH/TO/FILENAME
```

> decK automatically uses the credentials in `~/.deck.yaml` in any subsequent calls:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
decK automatically uses the credentials in `~/.deck.yaml` in any subsequent calls.
For example:
```

```
deck ping

Successfully Konnected as MyName (Konnect Org)!
```

## Target a {{site.konnect_short_name}} API

Use `--konnect-addr` to select the API to connect to.

The default API decK uses is `https://us.api.konghq.com`, which targets the `cloud.konghq.com` environment.
If your account is in this environment, you don't need to change anything.

If your account is in the `konnect.konghq.com` environment, use this flag to target the relevant API:

```sh
deck ping --konnect-addr https://konnect.konghq.com
```

## Runtime groups

> Target runtime groups in your state file with the `konnect_runtime_group` parameter:

Reviewer 2: If this is an option you can add to your basic config file, I might add this as a bullet under step one with something like "If you want to target runtime groups....". I just wasn't sure how this related to the steps below.

Author: It's more about targeting custom runtime groups. By default, a file will target the runtime group `default`, and if you want to change that, you have to set it either in the file or with a flag. Even if you don't explicitly set it though, decK will add the parameter.

```yaml
_format_version: "1.1"
_konnect:
  runtime_group_name: staging
```

> You can also set this parameter using the `--konnect-runtime-group-name` flag:

Reviewer 2: Same comment as the one above about if this could be added as an optional "you could also add this" bullet under step one.

```sh
deck sync --konnect-runtime-group-name default
```

A state file can only target one runtime group.

If you leave this empty, don't provide a flag, or don't include a `_konnect` section at all, decK targets the `default` runtime group.
You can see this by pushing a config file to {{site.konnect_short_name}} with `deck sync`.

> 1. Create a basic config file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a basic config file. For example:
```
Just to match other task lists I've seen where the command ends in a period. Not sure if that's standard or not.

Author: Ack - that's just inconsistency on my part.

    ```yaml
    _format_version: "1.1"
    services:
    - name: example_service
      host: mockbin.org
    ```

> 2. Sync the file to {{site.konnect_short_name}}:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Sync the file to {{site.konnect_short_name}}.
```

    ```sh
    deck sync
    ```

> 3. Pull down the configuration with `deck dump`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Pull down the configuration with `deck dump`.
```

    ```sh
    deck dump --konnect-runtime-group-name default
    ```

>     See the newly added `_konnect` section:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    See the newly added `_konnect` section. For example:
```
One question I had is why they need to see the new section. Do they need to use that info in another spot?

Author: In hindsight, this entire section is irrelevant. It's literally just here to illustrate what happens if you don't provide a group, but there's no reason to document that with steps.

    ```yaml
    _format_version: "1.1"
    _konnect:
      runtime_group_name: default
    services:
    - name: example_service
      host: mockbin.org
    ```

## {{site.konnect_short_name}} service tags

In {{site.konnect_short_name}}, there are two types of services:
* Gateway services: Managed through Runtime Manager
* {{site.konnect_short_name}} services: Managed through Service Hub

decK manages Gateway services, which contain configurations for the Gateway proxy.

> Although decK doesn't _directly_ manage {{site.konnect_short_name}} services, you can use tags to associate a Gateway service to a {{site.konnect_short_name}} service:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although decK doesn't _directly_ manage {{site.konnect_short_name}} services, you can use tags to associate a Gateway service to a {{site.konnect_short_name}} service. For example:
```

```
If the {{site.konnect_short_name}} service doesn't exist, setting this tag creates a {{site.konnect_short_name}} service.

For example, see the following configuration snippet, where the Gateway service named `example_service` is attached to the {{site.konnect_short_name}} service `example`:

```yaml
_format_version: "1.1"
_konnect:
  runtime_group_name: default
services:
- name: example_service
  host: mockbin.org
  tags:
  - _KonnectService:example
```

If the {{site.konnect_short_name}} service doesn't exist, this configuration snippet creates a {{site.konnect_short_name}} service named `example` with a version named `example_service` in the Service Hub.

## Troubleshoot

### Authentication with a {{site.konnect_short_name}} password file is not working

If you have verified that your password is correct but decK can't connect to your account, check for conflicts with the decK config file (`~/.deck.yaml`) and the {{site.konnect_short_name}} password file.
There is likely a decK config file conflicting with the password file and passing another set of credentials.

To resolve, remove one of the duplicate sets of credentials.

### Workspace connection refused

> When migrating from {{site.base_gateway}} to {{site.konnect_short_name}}, make sure to remove any `_workspace`tags. If you leave `_workspace` in, you get the following error:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When migrating from {{site.base_gateway}} to {{site.konnect_short_name}}, make sure to remove any `_workspace` tags. If you leave `_workspace` in, you get the following error:
```

```
Error: checking if workspace exists
```

Remove the `_workspace` key to resolve this error.

You can now sync the file as-is to apply it to the default runtime group, or add a key to apply the configuration to a specific runtime group.

> To apply configuration to custom runtime groups, replace `_workspace` with `runtime_group_name: GroupName`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To apply the configuration to custom runtime groups, replace `_workspace` with `runtime_group_name: GroupName`.
```

For example, to export the configuration from workspace `staging` to runtime group `staging`, you would change:

```
_workspace: staging
```

> Into:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To:
```
Could be a personal preference though, so feel free to ignore.

### Authenticate with CLI flags

There are two ways to authenticate through CLI flags: by passing the password in
`--konnect-password` directly, or by saving it to a file and passing the filename
to decK with `--konnect-password-file`.

With `konnect-password`:

```sh
deck ping \
  --konnect-email YOUR_EMAIL \
  --konnect-password YOUR_PASSWORD
```

Or, save your {{site.konnect_short_name}} password to a file, then pass the file
using the `--konnect-password-file` flag:

```sh
deck ping \
  --konnect-email YOUR_EMAIL \
  --konnect-password-file /PATH/TO/FILE
```

### Authenticate with a decK config file

The default decK configuration file is `~/.deck.yaml`. You can store {{site.konnect_short_name}}
credentials in this file to pass them more securely. For example:

```
konnect-email: example@email.com
konnect-password: MyPass
```

Alternatively, you can save your password in a separate file, then
specify the password file instead of a password:

```
konnect-email: example@email.com
konnect-password-file: path/to/filename
```

decK automatically uses the credentials in `~/.deck.yaml` in any subsequent
calls:

```
deck ping

Successfully Konnected as MyName (Konnect Org)!
```

> ## Runtime groups

Reviewer 3: May be worth adding an example using `--konnect-runtime-group-name` to dump a config from a non-default runtime group?
